# Gemini Multi-Mode Application
- Gemini Multi-Mode Application is a versatile tool that utilizes the power of the Google Generative AI models for text generation, chatbot interactions, and image understanding. This application is built using Streamlit, making it easy to use with a simple and intuitive user interface.

## Features
The Gemini Multi-Mode App offers three main modes of operation:
1. Text Mode: In the Text Mode, you can input a prompt, and the Gemini AI model, specifically the 'gemini-pro' model, generates text-based responses based on the given input.
2. Chatbot Mode: Chatbot Mode allows you to interact with a chatbot powered by the 'gemini-pro' model. You can ask questions, and the chatbot will respond accordingly. The app keeps a chat history so you can see the conversation's progress.
3. Vision Mode: Vision Mode combines both text and image processing. You can provide a text prompt and upload an image (JPEG or PNG format), and the 'gemini-pro-vision' model will generate responses related to the image based on your input text.

## Setup Instructions
Follow these steps to set up and run the Gemini Multi-Mode App on your local machine:
1. Clone the repository to your local machine:
```bash 
git clone https://github.com/sravanthishoroff/Gemini_llm_APP.git
```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
```bash
cd <project_directory>
```
3. Create a virtual environment (recommended):
```bash
python -m venv venv
```
4. Activate the virtual environment:
 - On Windows:
 ```bash 
 venv\Scripts\activate
 ```
 - On macOS and Linux:
 ```bash
 source venv/bin/activate
 ```
5. Install the required dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
6. Create a .env file in the project directory and add your Google API Key as follows:
```makefile 
GOOGLE_API_KEY=<your_google_api_key_here>
```
7. Run the Streamlit app:
```bash
streamlit run app.py
```
8. The app will open in your web browser, and you can start using the different modes provided by the Gemini Multi-Mode App.

## How to Use the APP
1. Upon running the app, you will see a dropdown menu at the top that allows you to select one of the three available modes: Text, Chatbot, or Vision.
2. Depending on the selected mode, you will be prompted to input text, questions, or a text prompt and image upload.
3. Follow the on-screen instructions for each mode to generate responses or interact with the chatbot.
4. You can see the responses generated by the Gemini AI models displayed within the app
5. The app also maintains a chat history in the Chatbot Mode, allowing you to review the conversation.

## Dependencies
The Gemini Multi-Mode App relies on the following Python libraries:
- dotenv: Used to load environment variables, including the Google API Key.
- streamlit: The framework for creating the web application.
- PIL: The Python Imaging Library for image processing.

## About the Gemini AI Models 
- The app uses Google's Gemini AI models, 'gemini-pro' and 'gemini-pro-vision', which are responsible for generating text-based and vision-based responses, respectively. To use these models, you must provide a valid Google API Key in the .env file as mentioned in the setup instructions.

## Contributions
Contributions and improvements to this project are welcome. If you have any ideas for enhancing the app or fixing issues, please feel free to create pull requests or open issues on the project's GitHub repository.

## Thank you for using the Gemini Multi-Mode App! We hope you find it useful and enjoy exploring the capabilities of Gemini AI models.


